# Materials and Methods

Animal Models

The animal model used within these experiments were wild-type (WT) tadpoles of the Xenopus laevis variety purchased from Nasco, Fort-Atkinson, Wisconsin. The Xenopus laevis tadpoles were reared and always kept in a bowl of E3 media (approximately 50-70 tadpoles), temperatures fluctuated between 18-21.5°C. During colder months tadpoles were placed and kept in an environmental chamber (Biotronette Mark II) to sustain temperature at 21.2-21.3°C. When embryos first arrive, they are placed in a bowl (main bowl) of E3 media (5mM NaCl, 0.17 mM KCl, 0.33 mM CaCl2, 0.33 mM MgSO4) and sick/infected embryos are discarded as to not allow bacteria to spread to healthy embryos. The cleansing of sickly/infected tadpoles were carried out till they reach approximately stage ~30. Tadpoles were raised until they reached the developmental stages of 30 to 35, which was when they were separated into individual petri dishes (60mm x 15mm, Fisherbrand). Tadpoles were separated into 3 groups of approximately 20 tadpoles until they reached developmental stages 47 to 49 which was when they were used for experiments. The three different groups consisted of a control group (E3 media), a low antibiotic (Low ATB) group (0.1 mL of streptomycin diluted into 1000mL of E3 media), and a high antibiotic (High ATB) group (1 mL of streptomycin diluted into 1000mL of E3 media). 

Rearing Solution

1X E3 media was the preferred rearing solution for the X. laevis tadpoles. 60X stock was prepared by dissolving (34.8 g of NaCl, 1.6 g of KCl, 5.8 g of CaCl2 2H2O, and 9.78 g of MgCl2 6H2O) ingredients into H20, the final volume being 2 L. pH was adjusted to 7.2 with NaOH and finally autoclaved. 1X medium was prepared by diluting 16.5 mL of the 60X stock into 1 L. 

Antibiotics 

Two different concentrations of streptomycin were used in both PPI and Collision Avoidance experiments. The low antibiotic groups had 0.1 mL of streptomycin diluted into 1000 mL of E3 media. The high antibiotic groups had 1 mL of streptomycin diluted into 1000mL of E3 media. The streptomycin sulfate was purchased from Sigma-Adrich (Sigma-S9137). Streptomycin stock of 10mg/mL of streptomycin was created. To create stock solution of 10-20 mL (100mg in 10mL), mix 100 mg of streptomycin powder in 10 mL of DI water. Then filter with sterile syringe (filter syringe) and aliquot stick in autoclaved centrifuge tubes (1 mL). Freeze stock upon commencement of autoclave for future use and to protect degredation of potency.  
Behavioral Experimental Set-up

Both PPI and Collision Avoidance experiments were conducted using a petri dish of 10cm diameter, placed on a piece of plexiglass. A cardboard box was placed atop the plexiglass to block light along with any external stimuli that may be present. On the two sides of the cardboard box lay single speakers (Artic S111, Switzerland), held down by wax that had been melted. Small holes were cut into the cardboard box directly in front of the speakers. A wooden strut was then stuck onto the center of the speakers by melted wax and placed through the holes, where the ends of the struts were glued to the very edge of the petri dish via wax. Below the plexiglass, approximately 22in below, a projector (AAXA P300, Aaxa Technologies, Tustin, CA) was placed in order project all visual stimuli. Atop the cardboard box, a video recorder was placed facing down on the petri dish using an HD USB camera (C310, Logitech, Newark, CA) connected to a computer tower and monitor. Experiments were observed through the computer monitor and recorded using Debut by NCH Software. The petri dish was filled with E3 media (approximately 1.5 cm deep) for each experiment. For each response, data was recorded on the camera recording to process at a later time and was manually recorded using Google Sheets for quantification. 

PPI Set-Up

For PPI experiments, the program for running audio stimuli were projected onto plexiglass. Tadpoles were tested in clear plastic petri dish (sterile, polystyrene, 60mm x 15mm) filled with 1.5 cm depth of E3 media. The program was created utilizing a Java Script (Khakhalin). the Java Script allowed for experimental manipulation for a number of different audio and visual settings. These settings adjust the length of stimulus, volume of stimulus, and the interstimulus interval time. These settings allow for precise tuning of experiments. The audio stimuli for PPI experiments were kept the same for each individual tadpole. Audio volume was always kept at 20%, a single stimulus occurred after every 20s, experiment ended after 20 stimuli were recorded. Startle responses were recorded on a Google Sheets and each stimulus that resulted in a startle response was given a “1” while no response was given a “0”. Each experiment lasted approximately 7 min, responses were manually recorded into Google Sheets for later analysis, and videos were recorded and saved onto the computer. 

Collision Avoidance Set-up

For Collision Avoidance experiments, the program for running visual stimuli were projected onto plexiglass and created utilizing a Java Script (Khakhalin). The Java script allowed for experimental manipulation for a couple different visual settings. These settings have the ability to adjust the radius of the (Perimeter), the background color, speed of black circle (dot travel time), size of black circle, and interstimulus interval time (dead time) which allowed for finetuning of experimental design. Radius of the perimeter was kept at 145, background color was kept at 160 (37% grey), dead time 20 s, dot travel time 2500 ms, and dot radius 10 px. Tadpoles were tested in the same set-up as the PPI experiment except without the use of auditory stimulations. Tadpoles were first placed into the petri dish within the carboard box and was given 1 minute to acclimate to the new environment. The camera recording was then switched on and the black dot was manipulated with a keyboard. A viable tadpole will not sit still and will be swimming most of the time. The tadpole must be moving, and black dot collisions are predicted by the manipulator. The manipulator will send the black dot ahead of the swimming tadpole in order for a collision to occur. This was repeated 15 times, each time with a 30s rest between stimulations. Data was recorded on a camera and was also recorded on Google Sheets to quantify number of responses. 
